hi everyone it's Isaac with Lang chain
and today we're going to go over how we
can add structured output to our react
agents so to start off with we are going
to do a quick refresher on what a react
agent is and then we're going to explore
how we can add structured output to it
so on the left hand side of this diagram
you'll see um what the architecture for
a basic react agent is and this is a
very simple architecture we're going to
have one llm in the middle that agent
node and all that llm is going to do is
it's going to determine
whether to call some tools or to respond
to the user um and after it calls uh a
tool uh those tool responses will always
be forwarded straight back to the llm
who will then be called again to
determine whether it needs to call more
tools or whether it can just respond if
we want to structure our output what we
can do is we can add a respond node
right before the llm responds to the
user and what this respond node is going
to do is it's going to take the output
of that llm and it's going to format it
into the structured form that we wish to
respond to our user with it can be
really helpful to respond in structured
formats because this increases the
reliability of our agent because we are
having the same exact expected output
every time we run it and therefore we
can use this agent uh in larger software
systems since it's more deterministic
and reliable um which is not always the
case with llms so now that we've got a
quick Refresh on what a basic react
agent is and how we're going to add
structure output let's go look at the
two different ways that we can configure
this respond
node the first way we can configure uh
this respond node is actually um by
adding an extra tool to our agent llm
and so you can see this blue box here
the response format tool this is going
to be a pantic model that we passed to
our llm and it's going to be able to
call that as a tool which is a very nice
feature of Lang chain once it's decided
to call this tool we're going to um
follow that blue arrow we're going to
format the response of that tool call
and then we're going to respond to the
user so the pros to this approach are
that we only have to use one llm as you
can see in the diagram which is going to
reduce latency and costs
however when we're only using one llm it
can be a little finicky so the llm could
fail to call any of the tools which is a
problem because in this case the llm
doesn't directly interact with the user
it's only interacting with the tools so
if it fails to call any tools uh We've
run into an issue similarly the llm
could call the response tool along with
other tools and that could be a problem
so these greenbox tools are intended to
answer the user's question while the
response tool is intended to respond to
the user but what happens if the llm
chooses both a greenbox tool and the
response tool well we have to deal with
that in our code somehow because most
likely the LM really wants to find out
more information and is not looking to
respond to the user yet but there might
be unique cases where it is trying to
respond to the user or it isn't trying
to use a tool at all and is just messing
up so we need to be sure that we're
careful with all those cases and these
are some of the risks that can arise
when using this
option the second option uses two llms
so as you can see our original uh llm
that uses tools is going to only have
those green box tools to it so only
those tools that provide it information
and once it's determined that it's done
calling tools that it doesn't need any
more tool calls it's going to route to
the response node and that response node
instead of just formatting the tool call
uh like we saw in option one is actually
going to call a second llm and this
second llm uh is going to be written
such that it's forced to respond in our
structured format and this is a really
nice feature of llms that we can force
them to respond in a specific format so
the Pros to this version are that we are
virtually guaranteed structured output
because we're always going to reach the
second llm barring some really strange
loop with the llm and tools and since
this second llm is guaranteed to have
the right response format our overall
graph is guaranteed to have the right
response format which is really nice
however to guarantee this response
format we're going to have to introduce
another llm call which is going to mean
higher latency and higher costs and in
addition the first llm actually lacks
the context of the response format and
what I mean by that is this first LM
here maybe we ask it a question like
what's the weather and the response
format say we want to respond with the
wind
speed perhaps that first LM doesn't know
that though because we haven't provided
it any context on the response format so
when the user says what's the weather it
only looks up the temperature or the
precipitation or whatever and then it it
finishes quering that information it
thinks it's solved to the question and
it goes to that second llm and now that
second llm is trying to format this
response with the wind speed but it
doesn't find it anywhere so that's one
of the cons uh in this
format but now that we've ran through a
quick overview of both of the formats
let's dive into some code and see how
these work in the real
world all right so now we are in our
code repo for the first option where we
uh bind both of the the structured
output and the tools to query the
information to the same llm we only are
going to have a single llm in this graph
so we can start walking through the code
first we're going to Define our
structured output class in this case
it's going to be a pantic model that
mimics some sort of weather response
this is a very simple vanilla example
but you could make this as complicated
as you want next we're going to define
the input output and the state to our
graph so the input is just going to be
the messages State and that means it's
just going to be a list of messages uh
our output is just going to be our final
response which is going to be of type
weather response that structured output
that we had above and then our overall
state is going to contain both the input
and the output state so it's both going
to keep track of a list of messages by
uh subclassing from messages State and
then it's also going to keep track of
the final
response next we can Define our tools
and our model so we're going to be using
the python tool decorator here to define
the get weather tool and the get weather
tool can be written as a python function
with the tool decorator right above
which is really cool uh and makes
turning any python function into a tool
super simple um and a really cool thing
here or at least something I think is
cool is that we can bind both this get
weather and this weather response uh to
our model and the reason I think this is
cool is because get weather was defined
as a python function that we added a
decorator to and weather response was
defined as a pantic base model but we
can pass both of those in and under the
hood L chain is going to deal with
converting those to the proper format
for the llm to interact with which is
really nice so now we have our single
llm which both has the get weather tool
and the weather response tool so it
should not only be able to solve uh the
user's query but it should also be able
to respond to the user in the correct
format so next we can Define our graph
nodes and we're going to have two nodes
we're going to have our call model node
which is going to actually call this
model and then we're going to to have
our respond node so our respond node is
just going to take the last tool call
that was made from our model and that
last tool call is going to be the
weather response tool call so once we're
at the respond node that means the
weather response tool got called and
we're going to take that the arguments
from that tool call and we're just going
to pass those to our weather response
object and then we will return that as
our final
response next we can Define our routing
function which is going to inform our
graph what's step it should take next
based on the output of the llm so if the
llm outputs a single tool call and that
tool call is the weather response tool
call we're going to respond to the user
and otherwise we are going to go use our
other tools so in this case the get
weather tools but any tools that are
helping us answer the question and not
respond to the user and note that we
make that check for the tool call length
being one because we want to ensure that
the llm is only responding to the user
it doesn't have any more information to
get um and that is going to be the case
that we respond so now that we've done
all of that we can Define our graph
structure which is fairly simple we're
going to be defining a state graph with
our uh afor mentioned agent state agent
input and agent output we're going to
add our three nodes the agent node the
tools node and the respond node we're
going to set our entry point as agent
the graph is going to start by calling
the llm uh and and then we're going to
add our conditional edges from the llm
to the should continue function which we
just defined above and lastly we'll add
it an edge from the tools to the agent
so as soon as we call tools we're going
to get that response right back to the
llm and then we're going to add an edge
from the respond node to the end of the
graph once we hit the respond node we
are done lastly we'll compile this graph
so that we can use it in L graph studio
so now that we're done with all that
let's head over to the studio and see
how this uh Works in action
all right now we're in the Lang graph
studio and on the left hand side you can
see our graph visualization very nicely
and we can input our question to our
graph so we're going to ask it what is
the weather in SF and we're going to see
the graph running both visually on the
leftand side and on the right hand side
we're going to get a stream of the
output so perfect we see that the AI
first calls the get weather tool which
then returns it its response and then it
calls the weather response tool which
rout it to the respond node and then our
final response is exactly what we are
hoping for this structured weather
response object with the wind direction
the temperature and the wind speed and
now we can actually open this run in
lsmith and verify that everything worked
as expected
so as it loads we can see that our
rendered output was exactly what we
expected which is great so the output
from the studio matches the output in
lsmith and then on the left hand hand
side we can actually see the exact trace
of what went on so we can see the nodes
that got called so it called the agent
node the tools node the agent node and
then the respond node which is uh the
flow that we were hoping to receive and
then if you wanted to further debug
what's going on you could dive into each
of these llm calls looking at the input
and the output uh we're not going to run
through all of that right now but lsmith
is a great place to do all of your
debugging and it couples really nice ly
with the front end UI that you get from
langra Studio so now that we've taken a
look at Option One let's go explore the
second option where we use two different
llms to structure our output all right
so now I'm in the code for the second
option where we're going to have two
llms I'm going to skip over defining the
weather response and our input output
and graph State because those are the
exact same as they were defined in
option one so you can go back in the
video to look at those if you want
the first uh difference we're going to
have between these two options is that
we're defining two models here and so
the first model is just going to have
the get weather tool binded to it so as
you can see our tools definition is now
a list of length one and it just
contains the get weather tool and then
we're going to have a second model
called the model with structured output
and this model is going to use the dot
with structured output method from Lang
chain uh and we're going to pass the
weather response and now this model is
going to be guaranteed to always output
uh a response in the format of the
weather response pantic model so now we
can Define our graph nodes again our
Carl model node is basically identical
to the first option except this time
we're not using the model with uh the
response format bounded as well it only
has the the get weather tool we're going
to invoke that and return whatever the
result of that invocation is and now our
respond node is a
little more complicated so instead of
just passing the output of a tool call
we actually need to structure the output
somehow so we're going to use that model
with structured output and we're going
to invoke it on the content of the
second to last message so that second to
last message is going to be the prior
tool message in the conversation so if
you remember the flow what's going to
happen is it's going to go from agent to
Tool back to agent and then to respond
so once it's at respond that means that
two steps ago it was at the tool node
and so we can take that second to last
message grab the content from that tool
message so that's the output of the tool
what did the get WEA tool respond with
and then we just want to structure that
response we have to make one little
trick here by converting uh that tool
message into a human message because you
can't invoke an llm with just tool
message uh the llm is going to be
expected to be invoked with a human
message then we can Define our routing
function which is fairly similar to
option one uh but in this case the check
is a little simpler if there are no tool
calls that means we're going to go to
the with structured output node um and
if there is a tool call we're going to
use that tool and our graph definition
is the exact same as option one so I'm
going to skip over that and instead I'm
going to head back to langra Studio to
show you how this option looks on the
front
end all right now we are in langra
studio and we can see again our graph
nicely visualized on the left hand side
and we can input a question to it and
we're going to ask it this time what is
the weather in New York and once we
click submit we are going to see our
graph running on the left hand side we
can see the visualization of that and on
the right hand side we can see the
output getting streamed so we're going
to see our AI is first going to call the
get weather tool as we expected and then
the second response it has there's no
tool calls in this response and so
that's going to Route us to the respond
node which then calls our model with
structured output and as we can see here
it Returns the output in the exact
format that we would expect so we can
actually open this run in lsmith to
verify that everything worked as
expected and perfect on the left hand
side again we see the exact uh sequence
of nodes that we saw in the studio agent
tools agent respond which is exactly
what we expected and then we can verify
that that output is uh in the proper
format which it is in this case case and
then if you wanted to do more debugging
you could dive deeper into each of these
traces and see what's going
on that wraps it up for this video on
structuring the output of react agents I
hope you learned a little bit and I hope
that you can use what you've learned in
this video to build some cool projects
with Lang graph have a great rest of
your day